#summary How to build.

<wiki:toc />

= Dependencies =

osgWorks depends on !OpenSceneGraph. See the CompatibilityMatrix.

The osgWorks build system requires CMake v2.6.4 or later.

= Building =

Like !OpenSceneGraph, osgWorks uses CMake.

The osgWorks CMake system should find the OSG dependency automatically if it's installed on your system in a standard/typical location. If the CMake system fails to find OSG, it's usually because OSG is installed in a non-typical location, or you're using OSG from a source tree.

osgWorks's CMake system uses a CMake helper script to assist in finding OSG. Open the OSGInstallType pulldown menu in the CMake GUI and select Default Installation, Alternate Installation, or Source And Build Tree. Then select Configure. The CMake GUI will prompt you for additional directory information based on your pulldown menu selection. Supply the requested directory information and select Configure again. 

After clicking Generate, use your project files / makefiles to build osgWorks. Build the install target to install osgWorks on your system.

= Finding OSG =

The CMake system that comes with osgWorks is designed to automatically find OSG if it's installed on your system in a standard/typical location. If the CMake system fails to find OSG, it's usually for one of two reasons. Either you have OSG installed in a non-standard location, or you'd like to use OSG from a source tree.

If you have OSG installed in a non-standard location, specify the top-level install directory with the OSG_ROOT variable (either in the environment, or in CMake). Then select Configure again.

If you are using OSG from a source tree, use the OSG_BUILD_DIR and OSG_SOURCE_DIR variables (either in the environment, or in CMake) to specify the root of the build and source trees, respectively. Then select Configure again.

In summary:
  * If OSG is in a standard location, you shouldn't need to set any variables. CMake should just find it.
  * Set *either* OSG_ROOT (if installed in a non-standard location) *or both* OSG_BUILD_DIR/OSG_SOURCE_DIR (if using OSG from a source tree). You should never have to set all three.

= Installing osgWorks =

Once you have built osgWorks it is possible to install osgWorks into a directory that will contain a bin, lib, and include directory with the 'install' target for GNUMake. The location of this directory can be set via the CMake variable CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX. After you have installed osgWorks, be sure to point your (DY)LD_LIBRARY_PATH at the lib directory and your PATH at the bin directory. This will enable your applications to load the appropriate osgWorks libraries and plugins.